Now that we have a better understanding of what's inside a wallet,
let's focus on the wallets themselves.
Because while these basic components like keys and addresses stay the same,
there are actually a few different ways these ideas can be implemented.
This results in a few different types of wallets.
In this video we'll introduce the major types of
wallets and describe their goals, purpose, and functionality.
Wallets can be split into two main categories;
deterministic wallets and non-deterministic wallets.
In non-deterministic wallets, aka random wallets,
private keys are generated from random numbers.
In deterministic wallets all addresses,
private keys, and public keys can be traced back to their original seed words.
You can determine the seed of these keys as opposed to
a random wallet where you can't trace things back to an underlying seed.
Seed words are a list of words that store all the information needed to recover a wallet.
These are generated when you first create a wallet.
You'll see them as soon as you create a wallet for yourself.
This type of wallet was developed because it's much easier for us to
remember a set of seed words rather than a list of random numbers and letters.
Deterministic wallets are split into two types;
the sequential deterministic wallet and the hierarchical deterministic or HD wallet.
Of these, the HD wallet is the most advanced form of a deterministic wallet.
HD wallets contain keys derived in a tree structure.
This means that a parent key can derive a sequence of children keys.
Then each of these can derive a sequence of
grandchildren keys and so on into an infinite depth.
If you look at the structure it resembles a family tree.
In other words, a seed is used to generate a master key.
We can generate both private and public keys from the master key.
This complexity allows us to manage keys
much more easily than we can do in other wallets.
Here's a chart of the three types of wallets and how each generates private keys.
Notice that for all of these wallets the private key
is very important because this is how we access our funds.
In addition, private key generation always uses the secure hash algorithm sha256.
Previously, we used sha256 to hash
our public key in the process of producing our wallet address.
The sha256 algorithm takes an input such as a public key and produces a hash,
a unique string of letters and numbers that is 256 bits long.
From the sound of this, you've probably picked up that private keys and
hashing are really important concepts for understanding wallet types.
Remember, wallets are an integral part of
our blockchain identity that helps us manage blockchain transactions.
Let's explore two of these topics in more depth.
First up, private keys.